(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(HORSE APPROACHING)
Onward, Chauncey!
To the highest room of the tallest tower
where my princess awaits rescue
from her handsome Prince Charming!
(DRAMATIC INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC
PLAYING ON GRAMOPHONE)
(EXCLAIMING)
This is worse than Love Letters.
I hate dinner theater!
Me, too.
Whoa there, Chauncey!
Hark!
The brave
Prince Charming approacheth.
Fear not, fair maiden.
I shall slay the monster that guards you,
and then take my place as rightful king.
What did she say?
(GROWLING)
(AUDIENCE CHEERING)
It's Shrek!
Whoo, Shrek, yeah!
Prepare, foul beast,
to enter into a world of pain
with which you are not familiar!
Happy birthday to thee
Do you mind?
Do you mind? Boring!
(CLEARING THROAT)
Prepare, foul beast...
(ALL LAUGHING)
Someday you'll be sorry.
MAN: We already are!
(GROWLING)
(SOBBING)
Mommy...
You're right. I can't let this happen.
I can't!
I am the rightful king of Far Far Away.
And I promise you this, Mother,
I will restore dignity to my throne.
And this time,
no one will stand in my way.
Good morning.
(EXCLAIMING)
Morning breath.
I know. Isn't it wonderful?
(SINGING) Good morning, good morning
The sun is shining through
Good morning, good morning, to you
And you! And you!
They grow up so fast.
Not fast enough.
Okay, you have a very full day filling in
for the King and Queen.
There are several functions that require
your attendance, sir.
Great! Let's get started.
(SNORING)
Come on, lazybones.
It's time to get moving!
(EXCLAIMING)
You know, you really need
to get yourself a pair of jammies.
(ROYAL PAIN PLAYING)
I got some sleep and I needed it
Not a lot, just a little bit
Someone's always trying
to keep me from it
It's a crying shame
It's a royal pain in the neck
I knight thee.
(MAN GROANING)
Ooh.
(EXCLAIMING)
Since you're filling in for one,
you might as well look like a real king.
Can somebody come in here
and work on Shrek, please?
(COUGHING)
I will see what I can do.
(EXCLAIMING)
Ow!
Whoa!
Yeah, wow.
(HESITATING)
Is this really necessary?
(LAUGHING) Quite necessary, Fiona.
- I'm Shrek, you twit.
- Whatever.
Okay, peoples, this isn't a rehearsal.
Let's see some hustle!
Smiles, everyone! Smiles!
I don't know how much longer
I can keep this up, Fiona.
I'm sorry, Shrek, but can you please
just try to grin and bear it?
It's just until Dad gets better.
(GROANING)
- Shrek?
- Yeah?
You look handsome.
Come here, you.
(BOTH PANTING)
My butt is itching up a storm,
and I can't reach it in this monkey suit.
(WHISTLING)
Hey, you! Come here.
What's your name?
Fiddlesworth, sir.
Perfect.
(FANFARE)
Ladies and gentlemen,
Princess Fiona and Sir Shrek!
(SHREK SIGHING IN RELIEF)
SHREK: You've got it.
A little over to the left. Yeah.
That's it! That's good.
- Oh, yeah! Scratch that thing!
- Shrek.
SHREK: You got it. You're on it.
Shrek!
- My eye! My eye!
- What are you doing?
Fiona!
- Are you okay?
- Yeah. I'm fine.
(GASPING)
Shrimp! My favorite!
(ALL SCREAMING)
- That's it! We're leaving!
- Please, calm down.
Calm down?
Who do you think we're kidding?
I am an ogre.
I'm not cut out for this, Fiona,
and I never will be.
(SIGHING)
I think that went pretty well.
Donkey!
Come on now, Shrek!
Some people just
don't understand boundaries.
(GROANING)
Just think.
A couple more days,
and we'll be back home
in our vermin-filled shack
strewn with fungus,
filled with the stench
of mud and neglect.
Oh, you had me at "vermin-filled."
And maybe even the pitter-patter
of little feet on the floor.
That's right. The swamp rats
will be spawning.
No.
What I was thinking of
is a little bit bigger than a swamp rat.
- Donkey?
- No, Shrek.
- What if, theoretically...
- Yeah.
...they were little ogre feet?
(EXCLAIMING)
(CHUCKLING)
(SHREK GROANING)
Honey, let's try
and be rational about this.
Have you seen a baby lately?
They just eat and poop, and they cry,
and then they cry when they poop,
and they poop when they cry.
Now, imagine an ogre baby.
They extra-cry, and they extra-poop.
Shrek, don't you ever think about
having a family?
Right now, you're my family.
(KNOCKING AT DOOR)
(SIGHING)
Well, somebody better be dying.
(KING HAROLD COUGHING)
I'm dying.
Harold?
Don't forget to pay the gardener, Lillian.
Of course, darling.
(COUGHING)
Fiona.
Yes, Daddy?
I know I've made many mistakes
with you.
(SIGHING)
It's okay.
But your love for Shrek has
taught me so much.
My dear boy,
I am proud to call you my son.
And I'm proud to call you my frog...
King dad-in-law.
Now there is a matter of business
to attend to.
(GASPING)
(COUGHING)
The Frog King is dead.
(SOBBING)
(COUGHING)
Put your hat back on, fool.
Shrek,
please come hither.
Yeah, Dad?
This kingdom needs a new king.
You and Fiona are next
in line for the throne.
(LAUGHING)
Next in line.
Now, you see, Dad,
that's why people love you.
Even on your deathbed,
you're still making jokes.
(LAUGHING)
Come on, Dad. An ogre as king?
I don't think that's such a good idea.
I mean, there's gotta be somebody else.
Anybody!
Aside from you,
there is only one remaining heir.
Really? Who is he, Dad?
His name is...
Is...
What's his name? What's his name?
(GASPING)
Daddy!
(WHEEZING)
His name is Arthur.
Arthur?
(COUGHING)
(GASPING)
I know you'll do what's right.
Harold?
Dad? Dad!
Dad?
Do your thing, man.
(SOBBING)
FROGS: (SINGING)
When you were young and your heart
Was an open book
You used to say live and let live
You know you did, you know you did
You know you did
But if this ever changing world
In which we're living
Makes you give in and cry
Say live and let die
Live and let die
(CHUCKLING)
(SINGING) Hey, lady
You, lady
Cursing at your life
You're a discontented mother
And a regimented wife
(MEN CHEERING)
(WHOOPING)
(SINGING CONTINUES)
What does a prince have to do
to get a drink around here?
Ah, Mabel!
Why they call you an ugly stepsister,
I'll never know.
Where's Doris? Taking the night off?
She's not welcome here,
and neither are you.
(SPITTING)
What do you want, Charming?
Not much. Just a chance at redemption.
And a Fuzzy Navel.
And Fuzzy Navels for all my friends!
We're not your friends.
You don't belong here.
You're right. You're absolutely right,
but, I mean, do any of us?
Do a number on his face.
No, no! Wait, wait, wait!
No, look.
We are more alike than you think.
Wicked Witch!
The Seven Dwarfs saved Snow White,
and then what happened?
Oh, what's it to you?
They left you the unfairest of them all.
Now here you are,
hustling pool to get your next meal.
How does that feel?
(CRYING) Pretty unfair.
And you!
Your star puppet abandons the show
to go and find his father.
(SNIFFLING)
I hate that little wooden puppet.
And Hook.
Need I say more?
(GROANING)
- And you, Frumpypigskin!
- Rumpelstiltskin.
Where's that firstborn
you were promised, eh?
Mabel.
Remember how you couldn't
get your little fat foot
into that tiny glass slipper?
Cinderella is in Far Far Away right now
eating bonbons,
cavorting with every little last
fairytale creature
that has ever done you wrong!
Once upon a time, someone decided
that we were the losers.
But there are two sides to every story,
and our side has not been told!
So who will join me?
Who wants to come out
on top for once?
- Who wants their "happily ever after"?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah!
This way, gents.
It's out of my hands, señorita.
The winds of fate
have blown on my destiny.
But I will never forget you.
You are the love of my life.
As are you.
And, you.
(STAMMERING)
Hi. I don't know you, but I'd like to.
(MEOWING)
I got to go!
(BELLOWING)
I know. I know.
I don't wanna leave you either, baby.
But you know how Shrek is.
The dude's lost without me.
But don't worry.
I'll send you airmail kisses every day!
All right, be strong, babies. Be strong.
Now, Coco, Peanut,
you listen to your mama, all right?
And, Bananas, no more roasting
marshmallows on your sister's head.
That's my special boy!
Come here, all of you!
Give your daddy a big hug!
(LAUGHING)
(SIGHING)
Shrek?
Maybe you should just stay and be King.
Come on. There's no way
I could ever run a kingdom.
That's why your cousin Arthur
is a perfect choice.
It's not that. No. It's... Well, see...
And if he gives me any trouble,
I've always got persuasion and reason.
Here's persuasion, and here's reason.
Fiona,
soon it's just going to be you, me
and our swamp.
(SIGHING)
It's not going to be just you and me.
(FOGHORN BLOWING)
All aboard!
It will be. I promise.
I love you.
(SIGHING)
ALL: Aw!
- That's lovely.
- Bye-bye, babies!
Shrek!
Yeah?
- Wait!
- What is it?
I'm... I'm...
(FOGHORN BLOWING)
(CHUCKLING)
I love you, too, honey!
No! I said I'm...
(FOGHORN BLOWING)
You're what?
I said I'm pregnant!
(ALL CHEERING)
Oh.
What was that?
You're going to be a father!
(CHUCKLING)
That's great!
Really? I'm glad you think so!
I love you!
Yeah!
Me, too! You!
I'm going to be an uncle!
PUSS: And you, my friend, are royally...
(FOGHORN BLOWING)
(CRASHING)
(EXCLAIMING)
Home.
(WHOOPING)
(EXCLAIMING)
FIONA: Shrek!
Fiona!
Fiona?
(GURGLING)
Oh, no.
(BURPING)
Better out than in, I always say.
(LAUGHING)
(EXCLAIMING)
(CRYING)
No, no, no! No, no, no! No.
- It's okay. It's gonna be all right.
- Dada.
Huh?
Hey! Stop! Hey, wait!
Hey, hey. No, no. No!
No. No, no, no, no. No, no.
Hey! Hey!
Oh, no. Hey, hey, wait. Would you...
Hey!
(BABBLING)
(SHREK EXCLAIMING)
Dada!
(SCREAMING)
Donkey. Donkey!
Wake up!
(BABBLING)
Dada!
(FOGHORN BLOWING)
Shrek! Shrek! Are you okay?
Oh!
I can't believe I'm going to be a father.
How did this happen?
Allow me to explain.
You see, when a man has
certain feelings for a woman,
a powerful urge sweeps over him.
I know how it happened.
I just can't believe it.
How does it happen?
(SIGHING)
(SINGING) And the cat's in the cradle
and the silver spoon
Little Boy Blue and the Man in the Moon
When you coming home, Son?
I don't know when
But we'll get together then, Dad
Donkey! Can you just cut to the part
where you're supposed
to make me feel better?
You know I love Fiona, boss. Right?
What I am talking about here is you,
me, my cousin's boat,
an ice cold pitcher of mojitos
and two weeks of nothing but fishing.
Man, don't you listen to him!
Look, having a baby
is not going to ruin your life.
It's not my life I'm worried about ruining,
it's the kid's.
I mean, when have you ever heard
the phrase "as sweet as an ogre,"
or "as nurturing as an ogre,"
or how about, "You're gonna love
my dad. He's a real ogre"?
Okay. Okay. I get it.
Look, nobody said it was gonna be easy.
But at least you got us to help you out.
That's true.
(CHUCKLING)
I'm doomed.
You'll be fine.
SHIP CAPTAIN: You're finished.
With your journey.
"Wor-ces-ters-shiree"?
Now that sounds fancy!
- It's Worcestershire.
- Like the sauce?
Mmm.
It's spicy!
(EXCLAIMING)
They must be expecting us.
(HONKING)
(ALL SCREAMING)
What in the shista-shire
kind of place is this?
Well, my stomach aches,
and my palms just got sweaty.
- Must be a high school.
- High school?
- Ready?
- ALL: Okay!
Wherefore art thou headed, to the top?
Yeah, we think so! We think so!
And dost thou thinkest thine
can be stopped?
Nay, we thinkst not! We thinkst not!
(ALL EXCLAIMING)
(SHRIEKING)
All right, Mr. Percival,
ease up on the reins.
(CRASHING)
For lo, bro, don't burn all
my frankincense and myrrh.
I'm already starting to feel nauseous
from memories of wedgies and swirlies!
But how did you receive the wedgies
when you are clearly
not a wearer of the underpants?
Let's just say some things
are better left unsaid and leave it at that.
So then I was all like, "I'd rather get
the black plague
"and lock myself in an iron maiden
than go out with you."
- Oh, totally.
- Pardon me.
(GROANING)
- Totally ew-eth.
- Yeah, totally.
Yes! I just altered my character level
to +3 superb-ability.
Hi. We're looking for someone named...
Gee, who rolled a +9 dork spell
and summoned the beast
and his quadrupeds?
(LAUGHING)
I know you're busy not fitting in,
but can either of you tell me
where I can find Arthur?
He's over there.
(LAUGHING)
There is no sweeter taste
on thy tongue than victory!
(ALL CHEERING)
Strong, handsome, face of a leader.
Does Arthur look like a king or what?
(GRUNTING)
Sorry.
Did you just say
you were looking for Arthur?
That information
is on a need-to-know basis.
It's top secret! Hushity-hush!
Now, gentlemen, let's away.
To the showers!
Greetings, Your Majesty.
This is your lucky day.
So what, for like,
are you supposed to be?
Some kind of giant,
mutant leprechaun or something?
(ALL LAUGHING)
Giant mutant... You made a funny.
Unhand me, monster!
Stop squirming, Arthur.
I'm not Arthur.
I am Lancelot.
That dork over there is Arthur.
SHREK: Hey!
(CLEARING THROAT)
This is, like, totally embarrassing,
but my friend Tiffany thinkest
thou vex her so soothly.
And she thought perchance
thou would wanna ask her
to the Homecoming Dance
or something.
- Excuse me?
- It's like, whatever.
She's just totally into college guys,
and mythical creatures, and stuff.
Oh, Arthur,
come out, come out, wherever you are!
(THUDDING)
Yeah, you better run,
you little punk no-goodniks!
'Cause the days of little
Donkey Dumpy Drawers are over!
(HESITATING) Hold it.
We're here for the mascot contest.
We're here for the mascot contest, too.
This is a costume?
(YELLING)
Worked on it all night long.
(SIGHING) Looks pretty real to me.
If he were real, could I do this?
(EXCLAIMING)
Or this?
(GROANING)
If it were real, that would have been
agonizingly painful.
- Now watch this!
- That's quite enough, boys.
Thank you to Professor Primbottom
and his invigorating lecture
on how to just say "nay."
And now, without further ado,
let's give a warm
Worcestershire hoozah
to the winner of our
mascot contest, the...
(ALL GASPING)
Ogre?
That's right. I'm the new mascot.
So let's really try
and beat the other guys
at whatever it is they're doing!
(BAND PLAYING
CELEBRATORY MUSIC)
This is all indeed a bit unorthodox...
Now, where can
I find Arthur Pendragon?
ARTIE: Hey, wait...
(ALL LAUGHING)
Classic.
You should be ashamed of yourself!
I didn't do it. They did.
(SNICKERING)
Please don't eat me.
ALL: Eat him! Eat him! Eat him!
I'm not here to eat him!
ALL: Aw!
It's time to pack up your toothbrush
and jammies.
You're the new King of Far Far Away.
What?
(LAUGHING)
Artie a king?
More like the Mayor of Loserville!
(ALL LAUGHING)
(PLAYING MOCKING TUNE)
BOY: Burn.
Is this for real?
Absolutely. Now clean out your locker,
kid. You've got a kingdom to run.
So, wait. I'm really the only heir?
The one and only.
Give me just a second.
My good people,
I think there's a lesson here for all of us.
Maybe the next time you're about
to dunk a kid's head in a chamber pot,
you'll stop and think,
"Hey, maybe this guy has feelings.
"Maybe I should cut him some slack.
"'Cause maybe, just maybe,
"this guy's gonna turn out to be,
I don't know, a king.
"And maybe his first royal decree
"will be to banish everyone
who ever picked on him."
That's right.
I'm looking at you, jousting team!
And Guin?
Oh, Guin.
I've always loved you.
Ew.
Well, good friends,
it breaks my heart, but
enjoy your stay here in prison
while I rule the free world, baby!
All right, let's not overdo it.
I'm building my city, people,
on rock 'n' roll!
You just overdid it.
(DOOR CLOSING)
(WHISTLING)
- Stunning.
- Look at you!
- You look darling.
- Just precious. Look at her.
So have you had any cravings
since you've been pregnant?
No. Not at all.
(SNIFFING)
Do you smell ham?
It's present time!
Oh, Fiona, won't you please open
mine first? It's the one in front.
"Congratulations on your new mess..."
Oh, mess maker!
"Hopefully this helps. Love, Cinderella."
(EXCLAIMING)
- Would you look at that!
- What is it?
It's for the poopies.
Ew!
- Wait. Babies poop?
- Everyone poops, Beauty.
PIG 1: Fiona!
PIG 2: Fiona!
We all chipped in
for a little present, too.
Ta-da!
ALL: Oh!
You know the baby's gonna love it,
because I do!
You guys, that's so sweet. Thank you.
Who's this one from?
I got you the biggest one,
because I love you the most.
"Have one on me. Love, Snow White."
What is it?
- He's a live-in babysitter.
- Where's the baby?
You're too kind, Snow,
but I can't accept this.
Think nothing of it.
I've got six more at home.
- What does he do?
- The cleaning.
- The feeding.
- The burping.
So, what are Shrek
and I supposed to do?
Well, now you'll have plenty of time
to work on your marriage.
Gee. Thanks, Rapunzel,
and what's that supposed to mean?
Oh, come on now, Fiona.
You know what happens.
(SNORING)
You're tired all the time.
You'll start letting yourself go.
Stretch marks.
Say goodbye to romance.
(AGREEING)
I'm sorry, but how many of you
have kids?
She's right!
A baby is only gonna strengthen
the love that Shrek and Fiona have.
How did Shrek react when you told him?
Tell me.
Well, when he first found out,
Shrek said...
(GROWLING)
Onward, my new friends!
To our happily ever afters!
(FLY BUZZING)
Now, bombs away!
Well, well, well. If it isn't Peter Pan.
- His name's not Peter.
- Shut it, Wendy.
(SCREAMING)
(LAUGHING)
Enough pillaging! To the castle!
You go and take care of the baby!
Everybody stay calm!
We're all going to die!
Everyone in! Now!
Come on! Put some back into it, people.
Yee-haw!
(EXCLAIMING)
We don't have time. Now go!
Quickly, ladies!
We'll hold them off as long as we can!
Where are Shrek and Fiona?
- The name doesn't ring a bell.
- Yeah, no bell.
I suggest you freaks cooperate
with the new King of Far Far Away!
The only thing you're ever gonna be
king of is King of the Stupids!
- Hook!
- Right!
Avast, ye cookie.
Oh.
Start talking.
(SCREAMING)
- Gingy!
- Papa!
TEACHER: Settle down now.
(FARQUAAD LAUGHING)
(SINGING) On the good ship Lollipop
It's a sweet trip to the candy shop
You!
You can't lie.
So tell me, puppet, where is Shrek?
Well, I don't know where he's not.
You're telling me
you don't know where Shrek is?
It wouldn't be inaccurate to assume
that I couldn't exactly not say
that is or isn't almost partially incorrect.
So you do know where he is!
On the contrary,
I'm possibly more or less
not definitely rejecting the idea
that in no way, with any amount
of uncertainty that I undeniably...
- Stop it!
- ...do or do not know
where he shouldn't probably be.
If that indeed wasn't where he isn't.
Even if he wasn't not where
I knew he was, it could mean...
(SINGING) On the good ship Lollipop
Enough!
Shrek went off
to bring back the next heir! Oh!
(LAUGHING NERVOUSLY)
He's bringing back the next heir?
No!
- Hook! Get rid of this new "King."
- Right.
But bring Shrek to me.
I have something
special in mind for him.
He'll never fall for your tricks!
Oh, boy.
I can't believe it. Me, a king?
I mean, I knew I came
from royalty and all,
but I just figured everyone forgot
about me.
Oh, no. In fact, the King
asked for you personally.
Really? Wow.
Look, I know
it's not all gonna be fun and games.
It really is all fun and games, actually.
Sure, you have to knight a few heroes,
launch a ship or two.
By the way, make sure you hit the boat
just right with the bottle.
Boat with a bottle.
Any idiot can hit a boat with a bottle.
(LAUGHING) Well,
I've heard it's harder than it looks.
Whoa! This is going to be huge.
Parties, princesses, castles.
Princesses.
It's gonna be great, Artie.
You'll be living in the lap of luxury.
They got the finest chefs around
waiting for you to place your order.
And fortunately,
you'll have the royal food tasters.
Oh, yeah? What do they do?
They taste the food before the King eats
to make sure it's not poisoned.
- Poisoned?
- Or too salty.
Don't worry about it. You'll be safe and
sound with the help of your bodyguards.
- Bodyguards?
- All of them willing at a moment's notice
to lay down their own lives
out of devotion to you.
Really?
And the whole kingdom will look to you
for wisdom and guidance.
Just make sure they don't die of famine!
- Or plague.
- Plague is bad.
The coughing, the groaning,
the festering sores.
(LAUGHING UNCOMFORTABLY)
Festering sores!
Hey, you are one funny kitty cat.
What did I say?
We don't want Artie here
getting the wrong idea.
Artie?
(EXCLAIMING)
- There goes my hip!
- Artie! What are you doing?
What does it look like?
This really isn't up to you.
But I don't know anything
about being king!
You'll learn on the job!
Sorry to disappoint you,
but I'm going back.
Back to what?
Being a loser?
- Now look what you did!
- ARTIE: Look what I did?
Who was holding the wheel, chief?
(MUFFLED SHOUTING)
Shrek!
SHIP CAPTAIN: Land ho!
How humiliating.
Oh, nice going, Your Highness.
So now it's "Your Highness"?
What happened to "loser," huh?
Hey, if you think this is getting you
out of anything, well, it isn't.
We're heading back to Far Far Away
one way or another.
And you're going to be a father!
What?
(CLEARING THROAT)
You just said "father."
I said king! You're going to be king!
(IMITATING SHREK)
"You're going to be king!" Yeah, right.
Where do you think you're going?
Far Far Away from you!
You get back here, young man,
and I mean it.
Boss? I don't think he's coming back.
Maybe it's for the best.
He's not exactly king material.
When were you planning on telling him
that you were really supposed
to be king?
Oh, come on. Now why would I do that?
Besides, he'll be 10 times
better at it than me.
Hey, whoa, Shrek.
Then you're gonna have
to change your tactics
if you want to get anywhere with this kid.
(SIGHING)
You're right, Donkey.
What about this?
- Shrek!
- Come on. It's just a joke.
(CHUCKLING)
Still...
Listen, Artie.
If you think this whole mad scene
ain't dope, I feel you, dude.
I mean, I'm not trying to get up in your
grill, or raise your roof, or whatever.
But what I am screamin' is,
yo, check out this
kazing thazing, bazaby!
I mean, if it doesn't groove,
or what I'm saying
ain't straight trippin', just say,
"Oh, no, you didn't!
"You know,
you're getting on my last nerve."
And then I'll know it's...
Then I'll know it's wack!
(EXCLAIMING)
ARTIE: Somebody help!
I've been kidnapped by a monster
who's trying to relate to me!
- Artie, Artie, wait, wait, wait.
- Come on! Come on. Help! Help! Hello?
(EXCLAIMING)
Greetings, cosmic children
of the universe.
Welcome to my serenity circle.
Please leave any bad vibes
outside the healing vortex.
Now prepare...
(GROANING)
I knew I should have got that warranty!
Mr. Merlin?
You know this guy?
Yeah.
He was the school's magic teacher
until he had his nervous breakdown.
Technically, I was merely a victim
of a level 3 fatigue.
And at the request of my therapist
and the school authorities,
I've retired to the tranquility of nature
to discover my divine purpose.
Now, can I interest anyone
in a snack or beverage?
No.
Sure you don't want to try
my famous Rock Au Gratin?
(CRUNCHING)
It's organic.
Thanks. I just ate a boulder
on the way in.
What we need are directions
back to Far Far Away.
What's with the "we"?
Who said I was going with you?
I did.
'Cause there's a lot of people
counting on you,
so don't try and weasel out of it.
If it's such a great job,
why don't you do it?
Understand this, kid. It's no more
Mr. Nice Guy from here on out.
Oh! So that was your Mr. Nice Guy?
I know, and I'm going to miss him.
You know what? Why don't you go
terrorize a village and leave me alone!
Was that some kind of crack
about ogres?
You get your royal highness
to Far Far Away
before I kick it there!
Now, which way am I kicking?
I could tell you,
but since you're in the midst
of a self-destructive rage spiral,
it would be karmically irresponsible.
Self-destructive...
Look, are you going to help us or not?
Most definitely, but only after you
take the journey to your soul!
Yeah, I don't think so.
Look, pal. It's either that
or some primal scream therapy.
(SCREAMING)
All right. All right. Journey to the soul.
Now, all of you,
look into the Fire of Truth
and tell me what you see.
(WHOOPING)
Ooh, charades!
Okay, I see a Dutch fudge torte
with cinnamon swirls!
Okay, monster, go for it.
(SIGHING)
(BABY CRYING)
I see a rainbow pony.
- Excellent work! Now the boy.
- This is lame.
You're lame! Just go for it.
(SIGHING)
Okay.
There's a baby bird and a father bird
sitting in a nest.
Yes! Yes! Stay with it! Stay with it!
Wait. The dad just flew away.
Why did he leave
the little bird all alone?
It's trying to fly,
but it doesn't know how to.
It's going to fall!
Proper head case you are, aren't you?
Really messed up.
Whoa!
(DOOR CLOSING)
Yeah, yeah. Okay, I get it.
The bird's me. My dad left.
So what?
Look, Artie...
(THAT'S WHAT FRIENDS ARE FOR
PLAYING)
Just thought I might help set the mood,
you know,
for your big heart-to-heart chat.
(MUSIC STOPS)
(DOOR CLOSING)
(SIGHING)
I know what it's like to not feel
ready for something.
Even ogres get scared.
You know, once in a while.
I know you want me to be king,
but I can't.
I'm not cut out for it, and I never will be,
all right?
Even my own dad knew
I wasn't worth the trouble.
He dumped me at that school
the first chance he got,
and I never heard from him again.
(SIGHING)
My dad wasn't really
the fatherly type, either.
Well, I doubt he was worse than mine.
Oh, yeah?
My father was an ogre.
He tried to eat me.
Now I guess
I should have seen it coming.
He used to give me a bath
in barbecue sauce
and put me to bed
with an apple in my mouth.
(LAUGHING)
Okay, I guess that's pretty bad.
You know, it may be hard to believe,
what, with my obvious charm
and good looks,
but people used to think
I was a monster.
And for a long time, I believed them.
But after a while,
you learn to ignore the names
that people call you,
and you just trust who you are.
You know, you're okay, Shrek.
You just need to do a little less
yelling and use a little more soap.
Thanks, Artie.
The soap's because
you stink really bad.
SHREK: Yeah, I got that.
(CINDERELLA SNIFFING)
This place is filthy!
I feel like a hobo.
I'm sorry,
but this just isn't working for me.
Everything's always about you, isn't it?
It's not like your attitude
is helping, Snow.
Well, maybe it just bothers you
that I was voted fairest in the land.
Oh. You mean in that rigged election?
Give me a break. "Rapunzel, Rapunzel,
"let down thy golden extensions!"
Ladies, let go of your petty complaints,
and let's work together!
(ALL GROANING)
SNOW WHITE: So I guess the plan is
we just wander aimlessly
in this stinkhole until we rot.
No, we're gonna get inside and find out
what Charming's up to.
I know he's a jerk and everything,
but I gotta admit that Charming
makes me hotter than July.
(ALL GROANING)
That's it!
(GASPING)
Come on! This way!
Rapunzel, wait!
Charming, let go of her.
But why would I want to do that?
(PURRING)
(BARKING)
What?
Say hello, ladies,
to the new Queen of Far Far Away.
(CHEERING)
Rapunzel, how could you?
Jealous much?
(CHUCKLING)
Soon you'll be back where you started,
scrubbing floors
or locked away in towers.
That is, if I let you last the week.
But, pookie,
you promised you wouldn't hurt them.
Not here, kitten whiskers.
Daddy will discuss it later.
Now forgive us.
We have a show to put on.
Shrek will be back soon, Charming,
and you'll be sorry.
Sorry?
Don't you realize
once Shrek sets foot in Far Far Away,
he's doomed?
(GASPING)
(YAWNING)
(WHISTLING)
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
(SCREAMING)
Look out! They got a piano!
Kill them all, except the fat one.
King Charming has something
special in mind for you, ogre.
King Charming?
Attack!
- Have at them!
- Come here, you!
Artie, duck!
(SCREAMING)
(LAUGHING)
Ready the plank!
- Shrek!
- Help!
Cowards!
What has Charming done with Fiona?
She's going to get what's coming to her.
And there ain't nothing you can do
to stop him!
(CAPTAIN HOOK LAUGHING)
- We've got to save her.
- But she's so far far away!
Get yourself back
to Worcestershire, kid.
No, Shrek. Hold on a second.
I've got an idea.
I am a buzzing bee.
(BUZZING)
Mr. Merlin?
They need a spell to get them,
I mean us, back to Far Far Away.
Forget it. I don't have that kind
of magic in me anymore, kid.
How about a hug instead?
That's the best kind of magic.
Mr. Merlin, please. I know you can do it.
I said forget it!
But...
(SOBBING)
What's with you?
It's just so hard, you know?
They really need to get back,
'cause their kingdom's in trouble.
'Cause there's a really bad man.
And it's just so hard!
- Come on. Take it easy.
- No! I don't think you understand!
There's a mean person
doing mean things to good people.
Oh, have a heart, old man.
And they really need your help
to get them back.
So why won't you help them?
(MUMBLING)
Okay.
I'll go and get my things.
(CLEARING THROAT)
- Piece of cake.
- Well, well, well.
You want some eggs with that ham?
Now, I am a little rusty,
so there could be some side effects.
- Side effects?
- Don't worry.
Whatever it is, no matter how
excruciatingly painful it may be,
it will wear off eventually. I think.
- Oops.
- Are you sure this is a good idea?
Look, if Artie trusts him,
that's good enough for me.
Even if his robe doesn't quite cover his...
Alacritous expeditious,
a-zoomy-zoom-zoom!
Let's help our friends get back...
Soon!
(EXCLAIMING)
It worked!
(IN DONKEY'S VOICE) Man, I haven't
been on a trip like that since college!
Donkey?
What? Is there something in my teeth?
(GASPING)
What the... Oh, no!
I've been abracadabra-ed into
a Fancy Feasting, second-rate sidekick!
(GROANING)
(IN PUSS' VOICE) At least you don't look
like some kind of bloated
roadside piñata!
You really should think
about going on a diet!
Yeah, you should think
about getting yourself a pair of pants.
I feel all exposed and nasty!
(LAUGHING)
So you two think this is funny?
I'm really sorry, guys.
Don't be. You got us back, kid.
(GROANING)
How in the Hans Christian Andersen
am I supposed to parade around
in these goofy boots?
Hey, hey, hey!
Be very careful with those.
(BRAYING)
They were made in Madrid
by the finest...
(BRAYING)
You'll learn to control that.
(SPUTTERING)
Seriously. Ow!
Man, you need some comfort inserts,
or arch support, or something.
(EXCLAIMING)
Hey, watch it. I'm walking here,
and I'm gonna keep going until...
Pinocchio!
(CALLIOPE PLAYING FESTIVE MUSIC)
- Shrek! Help me!
- Pinocchio!
What's happened?
Charming and the villains
have taken over everything.
They attacked us.
But Fiona and the Princesses got away.
And now she's...
She's what? She's what?
Puss! Loan me five bucks.
Come on, Puss. You heard the man.
Help the brother out.
Do you see any pockets on me?
Hold on a second.
Ah-ha!
I had no idea, really. I swear.
Quick, Pinocchio. Where is Fiona?
Charming's got her
locked away someplace secret.
You gotta find him!
He's probably getting
ready for the show!
Wait, wait, wait, Pinocchio! What show?
"It's a Happily Ever After After All."
"Shrek's final performance"?
(EXCLAIMING)
Shrek!
You didn't tell us you were in a play!
Well, I guess I've been so busy
I forgot to mention it.
It's the ogre! Get him!
Don't worry, jefe.
I got this.
Ugh! Kill it!
Look.
Don't you know who he thinks he is?
How dare you!
Donkey, we're dealing with amateurs.
He's a star, people! Hello?
I'm so sorry about this, Mr. Shrek.
I'm going to lose it!
I assume you have everything ready
for tonight.
You did get the list
for the dressing room?
Yeah, the breakfast croissant
stuffed with seared sashimi tuna.
And please tell me you at least have the
saffron-corn with jalapeño honey butter.
'Cause our client cannot get into
his proper emotional state
without his jalapeño honey butter!
I just lost it.
(HESITATING)
Maybe they should talk to Nancy
in Human Resources.
We have much to say to Nancy,
I promise!
(PIANO PLAYING BALLET MUSIC)
PRINCE CHARMING:
"With this sword, I do..."
No. "With...
"With this sword, I do smote thee!"
Is that the right word?
"Smote"? "Smoot"?
I don't think that's even a word, actually.
Maybe I should just "smite" him.
Let's try this again. Now...
(MUMBLING)
Shrek attacks me. I pretend to be afraid.
Ooh!
I say, "Finally the kingdom will get
the happily ever after they deserve.
"Die, ogre!"
Blah, blah, blah.
Oh, it just doesn't feel real enough yet!
Who told you to stop dancing?
Wink and turn.
What are you laying around for?
Get up! Honestly!
(MAN GROANING)
Our happily ever after
is nearly complete, Mommy.
And I assure you,
the people of this kingdom
will pay dearly for every second
we've had to wait.
(GASPING)
Break a leg.
Or on second thought,
let me break it for you.
Thank goodness you're here.
I was beginning to think you might not
make it back in time.
Where's Fiona?
Don't worry.
She and the others are safe, for now.
Hmm.
Let me guess. Arthur.
It's Artie, actually.
This boy is supposed to be
the new King of Far Far Away?
(LAUGHING)
How pathetic.
Now stand still, so I won't make a mess.
Charming, stop! I'm here now.
You got what you wanted.
This isn't about him.
Then who's it about?
I'm supposed to be king, right?
You weren't really
next in line for the throne, okay.
I was.
But you said the King asked for
me personally.
- Not exactly.
- What's that supposed to mean?
Look, I said whatever I had to say,
all right?
I wasn't right for the job.
I just needed some fool to replace me.
And you fit the bill. So just go!
You were playing me the whole time.
You catch on real fast, kid.
Maybe you're not as big of a loser
as I thought.
You know, for a minute there,
- I actually thought you...
- PRINCE CHARMING: What?
That he cared about you? He's an ogre.
What did you expect?
You really do have a way
with children, Shrek.
(CHUCKLING)
(9 CRIMES PLAYING)
Leave me out with the waste
This is not what I do
It's the wrong time
She's pulling me through
It's a small crime
And I got no excuse
And is that all right, yeah?
Is that all right with you?
Is that all right, yeah?
If I give my gun away when it's loaded?
If you don't shoot it
how am I supposed to hold it?
Is that all right? Is that all right?
Is that all right with you?
No
SNOW WHITE:
Had we just stayed put like I suggested,
we could be sipping tea
out of little heart-shaped cups.
Yeah, yeah, heart-shaped cups.
And eating crumpets
smothered with loganberries.
Yeah, loganberries.
- Shut up, Cindy.
- Yeah, shut up.
- No, you shut up.
- Just stay out of this.
Who cares who's
"running the kingdom" anyway?
- I care.
- And you should all care, too.
(DONKEY AND PUSS EXCLAIMING)
I have your badge number, tin can!
(HISSING)
- FIONA: Donkey?
- Princess!
Puss?
(SPEAKING SPANISH)
But I am Puss, stuck here inside
this hideous body.
- And I'm me!
- But you're...
I know. I know. Everything's a little fruity
in the loops, but what happened is
we went to high school,
and the boat crashed,
and we got bippity-boppity-booped
by the magic man.
You poor, sweet things.
I don't get it.
The cat turned into a little horse
that smells like feet. What's to get?
- Who dat?
- Where's Shrek?
Charming's got him, Princess,
and he plans on killing Shrek tonight
in front of the whole kingdom!
(GASPING)
All right, everyone.
- We need to find a way out now.
- You're right.
Ladies, assume the position!
(SNORING)
What are you doing?
Waiting to be rescued.
You've got to be kidding me.
Well, what do you expect us to do?
We're just four,
I mean three, super-hot princesses,
two circus freaks,
a pregnant ogre and an old lady!
Hmm.
Excuse me. Old lady coming through.
(SHOUTING)
(EXCLAIMING)
Mom!
Well, you didn't actually think
you got your fighting skills
from your father, did you?
Excuse me. I think there's still one more.
Hmm.
(SHOUTING)
(HUMMING)
Why don't you just lie down?
Okay, girls, from here on out, we're
gonna take care of business ourselves.
ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen,
the Far Far Away Theater
at the Charming Pavilion
is proud to present
"It's a Happily Ever After After All."
Enjoy your evening
of theatrical reverie, citizen.
Oi! No food or beverages in the theater!
(PLAYING SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC)
Places, everyone!
(EXCLAIMING)
- Easy!
- Sorry.
I guess I was just showing off
for the little one.
Huh?
It's Bring Your Kids to Work Day.
Come here, beautiful.
Well, she's got your eye.
(CHUCKLING)
Who would have thought
a monster like me
deserved something as special as you?
(BELL TOLLING)
(IMITATING BIRD CALL)
(SNOW WHITE SINGING)
(BIRD WHISTLING TO SAME TUNE)
(SINGING) Little birdies, take wing
Flitting down from the trees they appear
And to chirp in my ear
All because I sing
(SNOW WHITE SINGING)
(EXCLAIMING)
Move it! Go! Go!
My babies!
(SCREAMING)
- Help!
- Hey!
(WHISTLING)
(GUARD WHISTLING)
Hey, how's it going?
O to the K. The coast is clear.
All right, people. Let's do this thing.
Go, Team Dynamite!
I thought we agreed we'd go
by the name of Team Super Cool.
As I recall, it was Team Awesome.
- I voted for Team Alpha Wolf Squadron.
- All right, all right, all right!
From henceforth, we are to be known
as Team Alpha Super Awesome
Cool Dynamite Wolf Squadron.
Ach du lieber! There is some strange
little girl over there staring at us!
Artie!
Wait, wait, wait. Hey!
Where is the fire, señor?
Please. Don't act so innocent.
You both knew
what was going on the whole time,
and you kept it to yourself.
Artie, it's not like it seems.
It's not? I think it seems pretty clear.
He was using me.
That's all there is to it.
Using you? Man, you really don't get it.
Shrek only said those
things to protect you.
Charming was going to kill you, Artie!
Shrek saved your life.
Cue the spot!
(SINGING) I wait alone up here
I'm trapped another day
Locked up here, please set me free
My new life I almost see
A castle, you and me
Yes, a castle, you and me
Cherubs!
(SINGING) Tis I, Tis I
Upon my regal steed
Princess, my love
At last you shall be freed
I'm strong
And brave
And dashing my way there
With speed! With might!
With soft and bouncy hair!
- Through the blistering desert
- Hot!
- Across the stormiest sea
- Wet!
- Facing creatures so vile
- Foul!
So you can gaze upon me!
I knew you'd come for me
And now we finally meet
I knew you'd wait
And from my plate of love you'd eat
(GROWLING)
(CHEERING) Shrek! Shrek!
Who is this terribly ugly fiend
Who so rudely intervened?
Will Charming fight, or will he flee?
Please rescue me!
From this monstrosity!
(SINGING FALSETTO)
Fear thee not, honey lamb!
I will slice this thing up like a ham!
Oh, boy.
You are about to enter a world of pain
with which you are not familiar!
Well, it can't be any more painful than
the lousy performance you're giving.
(LAUGHING)
"Prepare, foul beast."
(CLEARING THROAT)
Prepare, foul beast, your time is done!
If you don't mind,
could you kill me and then sing?
(ALL LAUGHING)
Be quiet!
Come on, I'm just having fun with you.
That's actually a very nice leotard.
- Thank you.
- Do they come in men's sizes?
Now that be funny!
Enough!
Now you'll finally know what it's like
to have everything you worked for,
everything that's precious to you
taken away.
Now you'll know how I felt.
(GROWLING)
Sausage roll!
(GROWLING UNENERGETICALLY)
(EXCLAIMING)
Pray for mercy from Puss!
And Donkey!
Hey!
(THUDDING)
(AUDIENCE CHEERING)
Hi, honey.
Sorry we're late. You okay?
Much better, now that you're here.
ALL: Aw!
So, Charming,
you want to let me out of these
so we can settle this ogre-to-man?
Ooh, that sounds fun.
But I have a better idea.
Oh.
(GROWLING)
- Fiona!
- No! Let go of me!
You will not ruin things this time, ogre.
Kill it.
ARTIE: Everybody, stop!
(ALL GASPING)
What is it now?
Artie?
(ALL EXCLAIMING)
Who really thinks we need
to settle things this way?
You're telling me you just wanna
be villains your whole lives?
But we are villains!
It's the only thing we know.
Didn't you ever wish
you could be something else?
Well, it's easy for you to say.
You're not some evil enchanted tree.
You morons! Don't listen to him!
Attack them!
What Steve's trying to say here is
it's hard to come by honest work
when the whole world's against you.
Right. Thanks, Ed.
Okay. Fair enough. You're right.
I'm not a talking tree.
But you know,
a good friend of mine once told me
that just because people treat you
like a villain, or an ogre,
or just some loser,
it doesn't mean you are one.
The thing that matters most
is what you think of yourself.
If there's something you really want,
or someone you really want to be,
then the only person standing
in your way is you.
- Me?
- Get him, lads.
- ALL: Yeah!
- No, no, no!
What I mean is each of you
is standing in your own way.
ALL: Oh!
(SNIFFLING)
I've always wanted to play the flute.
I'd like to open up a spa in France!
I grow daffodils.
And they're beautiful.
(EXCLAIMING)
(ALL EXCLAIMING)
A new era finally begins!
Now all of you,
bow before your King!
(ALL MURMURING)
(CLEARING THROAT)
You need to work on your aim.
(AUDIENCE EXCLAIMING)
This was supposed to be
my happily ever after!
Well, I guess you need to keep looking,
because I'm not giving up mine.
Mommy?
It's yours if you want it, you know.
But this time it's your choice.
(ALL CHEERING)
Bravo!
(ALL CHANTING)
Artie! Artie! Artie! Artie!
Excuse me. That's my seat.
Okay, Señor Hocusy-Pocusy,
the time has come
to rectify some wrongs!
Although I have been enjoying
these cat baths.
Please, say you didn't.
All right! All right! Look.
You're gonna feel a little pinch
and possibly
some lower intestinal discomfort,
but this should do the trick.
- Are you...
- I'm me again!
- And I am not you!
- All right!
Oops.
Never mind.
What did I tell you?
I think the kid's going to be a great king.
Well, for what it's worth,
you would have, too.
I have something much more
important in mind.
(SIGHING CONTENTEDLY)
(GIGGLING)
Finally.
(LAUGHING)
Dada.
(LOSING STREAK PLAYING)
Was I wrong about the world?
It's a beautiful new place
I smell Shrek Junior!
Where else could a creep like me
Meet such a pretty face
Meeting every day with the rising sun
Looking up, it's looking like
(FARTING)
My losing streak is done
Peek-a-boo!
A bouncy, bouncy, boy!
Used to always feel like
(KNOCKING AT DOOR)
Wished that I was dressed better
Hey!
Where's the baby?
Never had a lot of luck
Until I finally met her
(LAUGHING)
Meeting every day with the rising sun
Looking up, it's looking like
My losing streak is done
(BURPING)
(FARTING)
My losing streak is done
Well, what shall we do now?
(SNORING)
(BABY CRYING)
(SHREK SIGHING)
SHREK: I got it.
DONKEY: Puss and Donkey, baby!
Once again, baby, come on!
(SINGING) I want to thank you
for letting me be myself
Again!
Look at my hips!
I want to thank you
for letting me be myself
Again!
DONKEY: Break it down!
PUSS: Let's go!
DONKEY: Stiff all in the collar
Fluffy in the face
DONKEY: Chit chat chatter trying
PUSS: Stuffy in the place
Thank you for the par-tay
But I could never stay
I'm sorry
DONKEY: I got many things on my mind
But the word's in the way
And I want to thank you
for letting me be myself
Again
Different strokes for different folks
Thank you for letting me be myself
Again
DONKEY: Break it down!
Puss and Donkey, baby!
Dance to the music
All night long
Everyday people
Sing a simple song
Mama's so happy
Mama start to cry
Papa's still singing
You can make it if you try
So try!
I wanna thank you
for letting me be myself
Again
Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Thank you for letting me be myself
Again
Come on, Donkey. Do something right!
Put the hoofs together!
Stomp your boots, baby!
I wanna thank you
for letting me be myself
Again
(SPEAKING SPANISH)
I want to thank you
for letting me be myself
Again
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Want to thank you
Just to be my
Because I just want to be my... See?
Can I, can I thank you! Can I
All right! Yes! Yes!